BULLFROG BIOGRAPHY 


Peter Molyneux 

Peter is the backbone of the programming team and is an all round good egg. He 
masterminds the innovative technology used in most of our games and keeps track 
of all the projects currently on the boil. Peter’s main interest is in the strategy as¬ 
pect of our games; he’s spent a long time building up a large library of routines for 
use in our planned range of strategically-based games. 

Glenn Corpes 

Glenn is our resident graphics and Atari specialist who originally joined our com¬ 
pany to head our graphics team, but who now refuses to do any graphics because he 
prefers programming. Glenn’s attitude towards work is to treat all suggested im¬ 
provements to the game as totally impossible until nobody’s looking. Then he 
sneaks away and does it. 

Les Edgar 

Les takes care of all the boring jobs that have to be done in the company, like get¬ 
ting up in the morning and writing out the pay checks. It’s his job to keep the Team 
topped up with enthusiasm. He can often be heard saying, “Isn’t that bloody thing 
finished yet?” Les’s main interest in the company is bringing together all the differ¬ 
ent parts that go into making a brilliant game. 

Kevin Donkin 

Kevin programs computers. He’s only happy when he’s at a keyboard. Sometimes 
we have to bodily drag him away from cash dispenser machines. Kevin has done a 
lot of the unseen coding in our products; that’s the stuff he tells us he’s done, but 
can never be found. 

Andy Jones 

Andy does a lot of our graphics work, like creating impossible levels and strange 
looking characters. These are generally based on hallucinations he’s had while lis¬ 
tening to incredibly loud heavy metal music. Andy’s main interest is adding small 
details to the graphics in the games and spending a lot of time testing out new ideas 
as they pour forth from the Team. 

Sean Cooper 

Sean does all of our beta testing. He’s the person who takes the stick for finding any 
bugs that may have slipped past the Team. 

Dave Hanlon 

Dave writes most of the music for our games and complains when we only allow 
him 256 bytes to put it in. Dave has been a musician for several years and uses a 
complex Amiga setup to produce his excellent results. 






TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Loading the Game 

1 

Game Play Screen 

2 

Tutorial 

3 

Conquest 

6 

Custom 

6 

Closeup Map 

7 

Information Shield 

9 

Command Icons 

10 

Direction and Object Icons 

10 

Divine Intervention Icons 

11 

Influence Behavior Icons 

13 

Zoom Icons 

14 

Game Control Icons 

15 

Two Player Game 

20 

Questions and Answers 

26 







AS A DIVINE BEING... 


you have a group of followers from whom you derive 
your power. The more followers you have and the 
greater their achievements, the more power you wield. 
Unfortunately, there is another group of people who 
follow a different deity. Since there is barely enough 
room in the world for your own magnificence, you 
must rid yourself of the opposition. To do this, you 
must use your great power to alter the face of the 
world so your devout followers can crush the mis¬ 
guided. 


LOADING THE GAME 


FOR THE AMIGA: 

You will need to have a blank, formatted disk handy in case you later want 
to save your game. 

1. Turn on your computer. (Amiga 1000 owners, insert Kickstart 1.2 or 
1.3 at the prompt.) 

2. When you’re asked to insert your Workbench disk, insert the Populous 
disk instead. Double click on the Populous disk icon. 

3. When you see a picture of a hut, double click on the picture to 
continue. 

4. Next you see three options: TUTORIAL, CUSTOM, and CON¬ 
QUEST. Click on the option you want. 

If you do not choose an option right away, your title screen is replaced with 
a demo and the program credits. To return to the title screen and your 
options, click the left mouse button. 










GAME PLAY SCREEN 



Book of Worlds . Information Shield 


Command Icons 


Closeup Map 


Manna 

Bar 


This screen contains all the tools you’ll need to impose dominion over any 
world. The screen is divided into five parts: Book of Worlds, Manna Bar, 
Closeup Map, Information Shield, and Command Icons. 


Book of Worlds: This shows you the entire world you’re trying to conquer. 


Manna Ban The Manna Bar shows a series of icons that are your 

Divine Intervention icons. You have the power to 
invoke any command to the left of the arrow. 

Closeup Map: This is the area of the world you can directly influence 
using many of your Command icons. 


Information The shield can give specific information on the Good 
Shield: and Evil populations. 


Command Icons:These icons let you control game play. 









TUTORIAL 


For an overview of the major functions and strategies of Populous, follow 
the steps of this tutorial. 

Note: Right-click means to click the right mouse button; left-click means to 
click the left mouse button. When it doesn’t matter which mouse button 
you press, click will be used. Select means to left-click on an option. 

□ Select Tutorial on the title screen once the game loads. The tutorial 
begins in Pause mode to give you a chance to look around before things 
start happening. 

□ On the open page of the Book of Worlds is a small map of the entire 
world that you want to conquer. The crosshair shows you what area is 
being displayed on the Closeup Map. The red dots are Evil walkers, 
and the dark grey dots are Evil settlements. The blue dots are Good 
walkers, and the white dots are Good settlements. Light grey dots are 
rocks. Click on any spot on the Book of Worlds to view that immediate 
area on the Closeup Map. 

□ Left-click on the Zoom to Leader icon < I> f K1 >. This displays your leader 
on the Closeup Map; he’s the one carrying an ankh (since you are 
Good). Your leader is vital to the control of your people since he’s the 
central figure of your population. (Your leader might be inside a build¬ 
ing, which will have the ankh attached to it.) 

□ Let’s locate the leader of the Evil population. Find some red dots on 
the Book of Worlds; these are Evil walkers. Click on a red dot to view 
enemy territory. The Evil leader carries a skull with him. Once you 
find him, select the Query icon ? and your cursor becomes a shield. 
Position this shield on the Evil leader and click. When you do this, you 
“tag” him with the shield. (The Evil leader might be inside a building, 
which has the skull attached to it. Tag the building with the shield, and 
when the leader leaves the building, the shield will stay with him.) 

□ To check on the enemy leader’s power, look at the Information Shield 
at the top right corner of the screen. The lower right quadrant of the 
Information Shield contains two colored bars. The higher the level of 






orange on the bars, the stronger the walker. Yellow represents an even 
stronger character. You can find more details on the Shield and its con¬ 
tents in the Information Shield section. 

□ Go back to your leader by left-clicking on the Zoom to Leader icon. 
Now it’s time to work on the landscape. Click on the Pause icon zZ 2 
to start the action. Notice how the people begin to move (instead of 
walking in place) and build structures. 

□ Now you’re going to do some landscaping. Click on the Raise and Lower 
Land icon Jjf ; this turns your cursor into a hand pointer. You’re going to 
flatten out a piece of land so your people can build. As you move the hand 
pointer over the Closeup Map, a crosshair jumps from point to point. This 
is the point of land that will be affected. Left-click to raise the land; right- 
click to lower the land. Try to create a flat area. Once you do, nearby people 
expand settlements on the flattened area. The more flat land you make 
around a settlement, the more crops they can grow and the more advanced 
they become. Note: You can only raise or lower land when there are people 
or settlements on the Closeup Map. 

4 □ Click on the Zoom to Shield icon < ® > to see what the Evil people 

are doing. Like you, they’re going to build as much as they can so their 
population can grow. 

□ Click on the Place Papal Magnet icon ^; you should see an ankh with 
a small arrow followed by a crosshair. Place the crosshair at the bottom 
corner of an evil building and left-click. This should place your papal 
magnet in that building. 

□ Now click on the Go to Papal Magnet icon <=> D= J =3 . Your people will 
now walk toward your leader as he treks to the papal magnet. 

□ Go back to your leader by clicking on the Zoom to Leader icon < >. 

Follow him by scrolling the Closeup Map with the Directional icons 
£7 • As he walks along, people join up with him (they bump into him 
and disappear, giving the leader their strength). 

□ When your leader gets halfway to the papal magnet, click on the Settle 

icon ■=> . Your people will search for the nearest flat land and build. 

Raise and lower land as necessary to help them build. Your leader is in 
the building with the ankh next to it. 


□ Check the Manna Bar. If the pointer is to the right of the Knight icon 

on the Manna bar, click on the Knight icon at the bottom of your 
Game Play screen. Your leader turns into a knight and the building dis¬ 
appears (if your leader was in a building). Your knight is not under your 
control; he’s a fighting machine who will destroy everything in his path. 

□ Click on the Zoom to Knight icon < > to find out how your knight is 

doing. If he has reached an enemy setdement, he should be cutting a path of 
destruction. When a knight destroys a building, he also destroys the land 
surrounding it, as shown by the “patchwork” land that remains. 

□ Now that you no longer have a leader (he became a knight), click on the 
Go to Papal Magnet icon so your walkers again walk toward the Papal 
Magnet. The first walker to touch the papal magnet becomes your new 
leader. Remember, this new leader will carry a miniature ankh. 

□ Once you have a new leader, click on the Settle icon so your people can 
start cultivating land again. Help your people by raising and lowering 
land as necessary. Creating usable land for your people is a vital part of 
the game. If your population doesn’t grow, neither will your power. 

□ Find an area that the Evil people have covered with their buildings. If 

you have enough power to use the Earthquake icon ((())) , click on it 

and watch the hapless Evil settlements shake to the ground. Instant 
destruction! 

□ Click on the Go to Papal Magnet icon so your leader resumes his trek 
into enemy territory. When your people get into enemy territory, click 
on the Fight then Settle icon *=> X to make your people attack the 
enemy and then build houses (if your people are strong enough to beat 
the enemy in battle). 

You now have a basic idea of how to play Populous. It’s a process of build¬ 
ing up your population while destroying your opponent’s population. 

When you’re ready for a game, click on the Game Setup icon 0) , and 

then select Conquest. Soon you’ll wonder why you haven’t mastered the 

universe long ago! 


CONQUEST 


When you choose Conquest (either from the Game Setup screen or the 
title screen), you’re taken to Genesis. This is the first and easiest world for 
you to conquer. You’re first shown a brief description of the world and 
your enemy’s capabilities. If you want to fight for Genesis, select Start 
Game. Once you’ve conquered Genesis, you’re taken to another, more 
challenging world. 

If you’ve played Populous before, and have conquered many worlds, you 
can go directly to any of the worlds you’ve previously visited. Select New 
Game and then type in the name of the world you want to conquer. Then 
select Start Game to begin. 


CUSTOM 


When you select Custom you can change the parameters of a world before 
you attempt to conquer it. If you select Custom from the title screen, you’re 
taken to a random world which you can modify. If you select Custom on 
the Game Setup screen, you can modify your current world. Choosing 
Custom takes you out of Conquest mode, and you can’t resume the Con¬ 
quest series of worlds without restarting by selecting Conquest. 

In Custom mode, you’re free to change all of the game parameters as well 
as design your own world. Use the Paint Map option (see Command Icons 
for details) to create the surface of your custom world. Then select Game 
Options to change the laws by which your world exists; e.g., whether water 
is fatal, swamps bottomless, etc. 

If you don’t like the changes you’ve made, select Restart Map to restore 
the world to its original form. Or if you want a completely different world, 
select Move to Next Map for a new random world for you to modify. 

When you’re satisfied with your new world, select Play Game and then 
OK. When your world appears, click on the Game Balance icon ^ (see 
the Command Icons section for details) and decide which powers you and 
your opponent can have. Then select OK. Now you’re ready to battle for 
dominion over your own custom world. 










CLOSEUP MAP 


«■ Use the icons described in the Command Icons section to af¬ 
fect the Closeup Map. 

Here are the things you can see on your Closeup Map: 

□ Papal Magnet — The papal magnet is your sacred symbol. If you’re 
Good, the papal magnet is an ankh. If you’re Evil, it’s a skull. The papal 
magnet is the focal point through which you control your followers. 

□ People — There are three types of people in Populous. To find out the 
status of a character, use the Query icon to tag him with the shield. 

Walkers: Walkers are your primary population. Walkers do what¬ 
ever you tell them: follow the papal magnet, fight the enemy, setde 
in an area, etc. Use the Influence Behavior icons (described in the 
Command Icons section) to tell them what to do. When two walkers 
of the same faith bump into each other, they combine to make one 
stronger walker. The strength of this new walker depends on the 
strength of the original two walkers and how advanced they were. 

Leader: You can only have one leader at a time. This is the first 
walker to touch the papal magnet; he’s identified by a miniature 
version of the papal magnet. Think of him as your high priest. 

Knight: If you have enough energy, you can turn a leader into a 
knight. Knights are fighting machines. They look for the nearest 
enemy setdement, kill whoever is there, and burn it down. The 
knight will continue to systematically destroy enemy settlements 
and people until he’s killed. 

Although a knight has many times the strength of a leader (from 
whom he came), there are still strong knights and weak knights. A 
knight gradually weakens with each battle, and a knight can die 
quickly when greatly outnumbered. You can have as many knights 
as you have the strength to make. 






□ Miniature Papal Magnet — A miniature papal magnet (the ankh or 
the skull) is always attached to your leader so you can identify him. 

□ Settlements — Once a walker settles, he builds a structure and plants 
crops. Your population growth is strictly governed by the number of 
crop fields you own on the world. The larger the number of contiguous 
crop fields, the larger the structure built by the settlers. 

Settlements range from primitive huts to intricate castles. Castles are 
erected in areas of at least 5x5 contiguous fields. Castles increase your 
population the quickest, but they also take the longest to fill. Walkers, 
your ever-important pioneers, will not emerge from a settlement until 
it is full. (Use the Query icon to determine the size of the population in 
a settlement by tagging the flag of the settlement with the shield.) As 
long as walkers do not emerge, you’ll have no one searching for new 
flat lands to settle on. You must decide what your status is and what’s 
the best move to make. 

□ Terrain — Terrain varies from world to world. Worlds range from 
hot deserts to frozen tundra; sometimes surrounded with water, some¬ 
times lava. Often the terrain is littered with rocks, trees, and the rubble 
from destroyed settlements, all of which hinder your population’s ef¬ 
forts to use the land. Each terrain type affects game play in different 
ways. For instance, walkers die faster in the desert, while populations 
increase slower on ice worlds. 


INFORMATION SHIELD 


Use the Query icon described in the Command Icons section to assign 
the Shield. 


Here is an explanation of all the parts of the Information Shield: 



This shows which side the information is for: ankh for 
Good, skull for Evil. 

The more primitive the settlement, the more primitive 
the weapon that the walkers carry. A fist or a club is 
primitive, while a crossbow or a sword is more advanced. 
Expect larger settlements to be more advanced. 

This is the subject that the shield is attached to: walker, 
settlement, or combatants. 

The information here depends on the subject: 


Quadrant 1 — 
Quadrant 2 — 

Quadrant 3 — 
Quadrant 4 — 


If you’re viewing a settlement, the left bar (yellow) represents its 
size/strength and defensive value compared to a full castle. The 
right bar (green) shows how close the settlement is to creating a 
new walker. 


If you’re viewing a walker, the bars represent the strength of the 
walker. There are three bars representing a walker’s strength; only 
two of these bars are shown at any one time. Each time the right 
orange bar fills up, the left orange bar increases one notch and the 



































right bar empties. When both the orange bars fill up, the display 
switches to show you a yellow bar and an orange bar; these work in 
a similar manner except they are now higher in value. Think of the 
three bars as representing a number with a ones place, a tens place, 
and a hundreds place, where the yellow bar represents the hun¬ 
dreds place. A walker with a full yellow and orange bar is one tough 
walker. 

If you’re looking at someone in combat, the bars show the relative 
strengths of the two combatants. Blue is the strength of Good; red 
is the strength of Evil. 

The large blue and red bars on either side of the shield represent the popu¬ 
lations: blue for Good, red for Evil. The higher the level, the higher the 
population. 

A small shield icon stays attached to your selected walker or settlement to 
remind you what the Information Shield represents. If a walker with a shield 
enters a building, the shield transfers to that building. If a walker leaves a 
building, the shield transfers to that walker. If a walker dies, the shield 
vanishes. If he dies in combat, the shield transfers to his opponent. 


COMMAND ICONS 


Use these icons to control game play. To activate a command, click on the 
icon. When a command is on, the square is highlighted. 


Direction and Object Icons 

These commands let you control the movement of your Closeup Map and 
find out information on that map. 

<57 Directions 

Click on any of the Direction icons to scroll the Closeup Map 
in the direction of the arrow. You cannot scroll off the edge of 
the world. You can use your numeric keypad in place of the 
direction icons, but the keypad response is slower. 






^ Query 


Selecting this icon turns your cursor into a shield that you can 
use to find out information about people or settlements. To do 
so, point with the top left corner of the shield at a walker or at 
a flag flying by a settlement, and then left-click. The Informa¬ 
tion Shield now fills with information on that walker or settle¬ 
ment. For a complete description of the Information Shield, 
see the Information Shield section. 


Divine Intervention Icons 

These are the same items that are shown on your Manna Bar. Click on the 
Command icon to activate the option. Which options you can execute 
depends on the amount of energy you have; you can perform any divine 
intervention that is to the left of the arrow marker. Remember that each of 
these actions require you to use manna. Each time you use manna, the 
marker drops to the left. 

*sr Each of the following options are available unless you turned it off 
under Game Setup. 


Raise and Lower Land 

This is the default selection. Move the cursor over the Closeup 
Map and a crosshair follows it. Left-click to raise the land one 
increment; right-click to lower the land one increment. The 
land is affected at the point where the crosshair is positioned. 
You must have a walker or a settlement (depending on which 
you chose under Game Setup) visible on the Closeup Map for 
this to work. 



Place Papal Magnet 


This lets you place your papal magnet (an ankh for Good or a 
skull for Evil) anywhere on the Closeup Map. The papal mag¬ 
net acts as a beacon for your followers. They will head toward 
it anytime you tell them to. 

Click on the Place Papal Magnet icon and your cursor becomes 
a small papal magnet with an arrow. Click anywhere on the 
Closeup Map to place it, and the papal magnet moves to the 
new location. 


You must have a leader to relocate the papal magnet. The first 
walker to touch the papal magnet becomes your leader. If your 
leader dies, the papal magnet moves to the spot where he died. 

Earthquake 

This shakes up the area in the Closeup Map, often destroying 
buildings and drowning people. Be sure not to devastate your 
own people or settlements. 

Swamp 

This creates a swamp in any flat area (it won’t work on a slope) 
and destroys crops planted in that area. Click on the Swamp 
icon and your cursor becomes a small swamp. Click anywhere 
on the Closeup Map to swamp the landscape. Anyone falling 
into the swamp will drown. If you selected the “swamps bot¬ 
tomless” option under Game Setup, the swamp remains after it 
swallows somebody. If you selected “swamps shallow,” the 
swamp disappears after someone falls into it. The only way to 
get rid of a swamp is to bury it by raising the land or dig it out 
by lowering the land. 

Knight 

This turns your leader into a knight. As a knight, he looks for 
the nearest enemy settlement, kills whoever is there, and then 
burns it down. The knight will continue to systematically de¬ 
stroy the enemy until he’s killed. You can have as many knights 
as you have the manna to make. 

Although a knight has many times the strength of a leader, 
there are still strong knights and weak knights. A knight will 
die when greatly outnumbered in battle. 

Remember, when you knight your leader, you no longer have a 
leader. Be sure to have a walker touch the papal magnet to get 
a new leader. 

Volcano 

This raises the area in the Closeup Map to a considerable 
height, destroying settlements and creating rocks over the af¬ 
fected area. You need a great deal of time and energy to repair 


the effects of a volcano. In order to get rid of rocks, you must 
remove terrain until you get down to water; then you can re¬ 
build. 

FIood 

Raises the sea level one increment over the entire landscape. If 
water is set on “fatal” under Game Options, every walker 
caught in the deluge will die. If not, you have the chance to 
work quickly to save your drowning population. 

Armageddon 

Both papal magnets are moved to the center of the world, and 
both populations uproot their homes and head toward the 
magnets, building land if necessary to cross water. Once there, 
they fight until one side is obliterated. 

Once you select Armageddon, you cannot alter the flow of 
events in any way. Make sure your population heavily outnum¬ 
bers your enemy’s before invoking this command. 

Influence Behavior Icons 

Use these commands to control your followers. Click on the icon to acti¬ 
vate the option. 

^ c ^ 3 Go to Papal Magnet 

This makes your walkers join your leader as he goes to the papal 
magnet. If you don’t have a leader, your walkers head directly 
for the papal magnet, and the first one to touch it becomes your 
new leader. 

■=> Settle 

This commands your walkers to look for unsettled flat land. 
Once there, the walkers build the largest settlement they can. 

•=> (§) Gather then Settle 

This makes your walkers look for other walkers. When a walker 
bumps into another walker of the same faith, they turn into a 
single, stronger walker. If no other walkers are in the immedi¬ 
ate area, the walkers just settle. 




Fight then Settle 

Tells your walkers to first look for enemies to attack, and then 
settle. If no enemies are in the immediate area, the walkers just 
settle. 


Zoom Icons 

These commands let you go straight to a particular subject on the map. 
Each time you go to a new subject, the Information Shield shows informa¬ 
tion on the subject that you asked to see for about three seconds. After that, 
the Information Shield goes back to showing information for the shield 
hearer (that’s the walker or settlement that^ow put the shield on by using 
the Query icon). If you don’t have a shield bearer, the Information Shield is 
blank. 

< c= J a > Zoom to Leader or Papal Magnet 

Left-click on this icon to show your leader on the Closeup 
Map. If you have no leader, you’ll go to the papal magnet in¬ 
stead. 

Right-click to view your papal magnet on the Closeup Map. 

< > Zoom to Knight or Settlements 

Left-click to show your knight on the Closeup Map. If you have 
more than one knight, left-click repeatedly to cycle through all 
your available knights. If you have no knights, nothing hap¬ 
pens. 

Right-click repeatedly to cycle through all of your settlements. 

< ^ > Zoom to Battle 

Left-click repeatedly to see each battle. If no battles are taking 
place, nothing happens. 

< W > Zoom to Shield 

Click to show the walker or settlement currently carrying the 
shield. Nothing happens if you haven’t assigned the shield to a 
walker or settlement. To assign the shield, use the Query icon. 


Game Control Icons 

These commands let you set general game play options. 


FX Sound Effects 

Turns the sound effects on or off. The beating you hear repre¬ 
sents your heartbeat. The slower the beat, the stronger you are. 

J]J1 Music 

Turns the music on or off. 

zZZ Pause 

Pauses or resumes the game. 

0) Game Setup 

Click on this icon to bring up your game play options. Next to 
each of the following options is a square button. To turn on a 
button, click on it. 

Q When the button is out, the option is off. 

□ When the button is in, the option is on. 

Note: When you’re in Conquest mode, there are many 
options you can’t select. Select Custom to change 
these options. 

One Player — Play against the computer or watch the 
computer play against itself. 

Two Players — Play against another player via modem or 
datalink. See the Two Player Game section for complete 
details. 

Play Game — Select this and then select OK to start the 
game. 

Paint Map — This puts the game in paint mode. When 
you use this option, the game pauses and your Raise 
and Lower Land icon is activated. When you move the 
cursor over the Closeup Map, a crosshair follows. You 
can alter an area where the crosshair indicates by press- 


ing different keys. Here is a listing of the keys you can 
press: 


FI 

Place a Good walker. 

F2 

Place an Evil walker. 

F3 

Place a tree or a plant; press F3 
again on the same spot to cycle 
through the selection of trees 
and plants. 

F4 

Place rocks; press F4 again on 
the same spot to cycle through 
the selection of rocks. 

F5 

Remove an object or walker 
from the screen. 

F6 

Increase Good’s manna. 

F7 

Increase Evil’s manna. 

F8 

Mirror the landscape (make 
symmetrical). 

Del 

Remove all the land from the 
world, leaving only water. 

Shift-Fl 

Place the Good leader. 

Shift-F2 

Place the Evil leader. 

Shift-F6 

Decrease Good’s manna. 

Shift-F7 

Decrease Evil’s manna. 

1 

Grass terrain 

2 

Sand terrain 

3 

Ice terrain 

4 

Ash terrain (and lava instead 
of water) 


You can also use volcanos and earthquakes to quickly 
modify your land. 

Good — You control the Good population. 

Evil — You control the Evil population. 

Human vs Computer — You play against the computer. 
Computer vs Computer — The computer battles itself. 
You still must pick a side; this is the side whose actions 
you can affect if you choose. Although the computer is 


set to fight itself, you can intervene at any time. Just 
issue a command the same way you would in a regular 
game. The computer moves pretty fast, so don’t be 
surprised if you move the papal magnet and the com¬ 
puter immediately moves it somewhere else. 

Conquest — Play the Conquest game. This brings up the 
World to Conquer requester. Select Start Game to 
accept the current world or select New Game, type in 
another name, and press Return. You won’t know the 
names of other worlds until you win and advance 
through the Book of Worlds. 

Custom — Play a Custom game. Choose this if you want 
to create your own maps or experiment with the vari¬ 
ous options. See the Custom section for details on cre¬ 
ating a custom game. 

Game Options — This brings up a requester with six 
options. The option you choose affects both players: 

Water is fatal/harmful. “Water is fatal” automatically 
kills everybody in water (usually after a flood); 
“water is harmful” gives you the opportunity to 
save people that are treading water by raising land 
beneath them. 

Swamps shallow/bottomless. After one walker falls 
in a “shallow” swamp, the swamp disappears. “Bot¬ 
tomless” swamps don’t disappear after a walker 
falls into it. 

Can/Cannot build. With “cannot build” selected, nei¬ 
ther side can raise or lower terrain. This overrides 
the following two build options. 

Build up and down/Only build up. “Build up and 
down” lets you add and remove terrain. “Only 
build up” means you can only add terrain. 

Build near people/towns. “Build near towns” means 
you can only build when the flag of one of your 
settlements is on the Closeup Map. “Build near 
people” means you can also build when one of your 
walkers is on the Closeup Map. 


Save a Game — First replace the Populous disk with a 
blank, formatted disk. Then select Save a Game. This 
brings up a save game requester, which catalogues the 
disk and lists any saved games. Click in the File Name 
box and type in the file name, then press Return; or 
click on a file name from the list. Click on the Save box 
to save the game to disk. If you’re using a second drive 
or want to use a directory other than the root direc¬ 
tory, then click on the Directory box and type in that 
directory. Once the game is saved, you are prompted 
to return the Populous disk to the drive. 

Load a Game — First replace the Populous disk with the 
disk your saved game is on. Then select Load a Game. 
This brings up a load game requester, which catalogues 
the disk and lists any saved games. Click on the File 
Name box and type in the file name, then press 
Return; or click on the name from the list. Click the 
Load box to load the game. If you’re using a second 
drive or want to use a directory other than the root 
directory, then click on the Directory box and type in 
that directory. Once the game is loaded, you are 
prompted to return the Populous disk to the drive. 

Move to Next Map — This brings up a random map you 
and your opponent can fight over. The map is unre¬ 
lated to those in your Conquest series. Selecting this 
option while in Conquest mode is equivalent to select¬ 
ing Restart This Map. 

Restart this Map — This starts the game over again for 
the current map. It starts with the original map; any al¬ 
terations that you’ve made with the Custom option do 
not appear. 

Surrender this Game — In Conquest mode, this lets you 
surrender the game. You must replay the world again 
before you can continue to the next world. In all other 
modes, Surrender This Game lets you quit the current 
game and go to a new world. 

Game Balance 

Left-click to bring up the options for Good; right-click to 

bring up the options for Evil. You can make each of the 


following options available or unavailable by clicking 
on the square next to it: 

When the button is in, the option is available. 

When the button is out, the option is not available. 

Can modify land 
Can attack towns 
Can attack leader 
Can use earthquakes 
Can use swamp 
Can use knight 
Can use volcano 
Can use flood 
Can use Armageddon 

At the bottom of the screen are the settings for Aggression 
and Rate. Click anywhere inside the bar to reset the level. 

Aggression. The higher the setting, the more aggressively 
the computer attempts to invade your land. Aggression 
has no effect on a human player since you obviously 
can’t dictate how aggressively he plays. 

Rate. This sets the rate of how quickly population grows 
in settlements. The higher the setting, the faster the 
population proliferates and gains energy. The com¬ 
puter is almost impossible to beat when its rate is set to 
maximum. 

Select OK to accept these options and to continue with the 
game. 

Send Message 

If you’re playing a two player game, either by modem or 
datalink, use this to send messages. Choosing this icon 
brings up a requester; type in the message you want to send 
to the other player (up to a maximum of 20 characters) and 
press Return. A similar requester containing the message 
appears on your opponent’s screen. See the Two Player 
Game section for more details on playing against a human 
opponent. 


□ 

□ 


TWO PLAYER GAME 


There are two ways to play against a human opponent: using a modem to 
connect to a remote player, or using a null modem cable to connect the 
serial ports of two computers (this is “datalink mode”). 

Because the format of the information exchanged between the two comput¬ 
ers is fixed, you can play against an opponent who is playing Populous on a 
different kind of computer. The speed of the game is related to the baud 
rate, so setting a higher baud rate makes the action proceed more quickly. 
To play in Two Player mode, both players need original copies of Popu¬ 
lous. 

Connecting in Datalink Mode 

1. Get a null modem cable. You can probably find one at your local 
computer store. 

2. Disconnect both machines from their power supplies. 

3. Connect the cable between the serial ports of the two computers. 

4. Reconnect both machines to their power supplies. 

5. Load the game on both machines and select Custom. When the 
Game Play screen appears, click on the Game Setup icon, and then 
select Two Players. You’ll see the Two Player mode requester. 
The default baud rate is 9600. 

6. If you want to use a different baud rate for the two computers, click 
on the Baud Rate box; a flashing cursor appears. Backspace over 
9600, enter a new baud rate (do not use commas), and press Re¬ 
turn. The baud rate must be the same for each computer. For iden¬ 
tical computers, use the fastest baud rate possible (i.e. 19200 for 
two Amigas). For two different computer types, determine the 
highest baud rate for both computers; then choose the lower value 
of the two. See your modem manual for details on baud rates. A 
good value to use is 9600 — most computers support this rate. 

7. Now skip forward to “Starting the Two Player Game.” 

Preparing Modems in Voice Mode 

If you and your opponent can plug phones into your modem, then you can 
connect in voice mode. 






1. Find a modem opponent. 

2. Disconnect both machines from their power supplies. 

3. Connect the modem’s serial cable to the computer. 

4. Connect the modem to the phone line; your phone should be con¬ 
nected to the modem. 

5. Reconnect the power supply to each machine. 

6. Call your friend on the phone and load the game on both machines. 
Select Custom. 

7. When the Game Play screen appears, click on the Game Setup icon, 
and then select Two Players. You’ll see the Two Player mode 
requester. Select Datalink and it changes to “Modem.” 

8. A text input box appears above the Baud Rate that says “Send 
Login.” You also see a new button that says “Full Serial Checking.” 
Don’t worry about these for now. 

9. The default baud rate is 9600. To enter a different baud rate for 
the two modems, click on the Baud Rate box and a flashing cursor 
should appear. Backspace over 9600, enter a new baud rate (do not 
use commas), and press Return. Set the baud rate the same for each 
modem. Determine the highest baud rate available for each mo¬ 
dem; then choose the /overvalue of the two. Typical baud rates are 
300, 1200, and 2400. See your modem manual for details on baud 
rates. 

You can use the Send Login box to send commands to your modem. To 
establish a data connection between the two computers (if you’re talking on 
the telephone), click in this box. One player should type ATA and press 
Return. This makes his modem send a carrier. When the other player hears 
the carrier, he should type ATD and press Return. Once the CD light on 
the modem (if it exists) lights up, the connection is established and both 
players can put the phone down. If you don’t have a CD light, wait a few 
seconds before putting the phone down. Now skip forward to “Starting the 
Two Player Game.” 


Preparing Modems in Non-Voice Mode 

If you or your opponent can’t plug a phone into your modem, then you 
need to have your modems make the call and establish the connection. 

1. Set the baud rate to that of your modem. Click on the Baud Rate box 
and a flashing cursor should appear. Backspace over 9600, enter a new 


baud rate (do not use commas), and press Return. Set the baud rate the 
same for each modem. 

2. One player must set his modem to “Auto Answer.” To do this, click on 
the Send Login box, type ATS0=1, and press Return. This modem 
will now answer the next incoming call and attempt to establish a con¬ 
nection with the other computer. 

3. The other player makes the call by clicking in the Send Login box and 
typing \TT)T\phone number ] and pressing Return. If you need to dial 
with a pulse phone, use ATDP instead of ATDT. Now the computer 
will dial the phone number and attempt to connect with the other 
computer. If you have to redial, click in the Send Login box (so the 
cursor appears at the end of the phone number) and press Return. 

4. Once the modems are connected (you will hear a squeal), click in the 
Connect Me box. 

5. Now skip forward to “Starting the Two Player Game.” 


Starting the Two Player Game 

First decide who is Evil and who is Good (there is no advantage to either). 
If you want to be Evil, click on the button next to “I Am Good” and it 
changes to “I Am Evil.” Unless you use a saved game, both players start on 
the landscape which the Evil player is currently using. The game options 
are the same on both machines; the options set for Evil are the ones both 
players use. 

Two features are disabled in the two player game: Loading a Game and 
Conquest mode. Messages are also sent to your opponent if you’ve changed 
any of the game options or if you’ve entered Paint Map mode. 

Establishing the Data Connection 

To connect, click on the Connect Me button on both computers. A re¬ 
quester shows that the computer is trying to connect. “Received Game” 
flashes briefly on the screen, and then the game starts. 

Using a Saved Landscape 

If you want to use a saved landscape, both players must have a copy of that 
landscape. If you’re playing with two identical computers connected via 
datalink, just swap the disk from one computer to the other. Put the disk 
containing the landscape you want to use into the drive and select Use This 
Landscape. Use the file requester that appears to select the landscape and 


load it. If you’re playing via modem or with two different computers, you’ll 
have to first transfer the landscape file over your modem to the other com¬ 
puter using terminal software if both players do not have the same land¬ 
scape saved to disk. 

If you use the normal Populous maps, one player may have a slight advan¬ 
tage because of the terrain his population initially occupies. This inequity 
evens out over many games. If you want to play on equal terrain, create 
your own map using the Paint Map mode (see the “Paint Map” on page 15 
for more details), and then choose Mirror The Landscape. This lets you 
create landscape that’s symmetrical. 

Using a Saved Game 

If you want to use a saved game, both players must have a copy of that 
game. Since the Load a Game option is not available in Two Player mode, 
a game can be loaded as a landscape. Select Use This Landscape as de¬ 
scribed above, and select the name of the saved game instead of a landscape. 
You will then be able to continue the game where you left off. 

Computer Assistance 

If you’re an inexperienced player, you may want computer assistance. To 
play alongside the computer, click on the Game Setup icon to bring up the 
Game Setup options, and then select Computer vs Computer (e.g. Amiga 
vs Amiga). The computer will now help you play against your opponent 
over the modem. 

Pausing 

Click on the Pause icon to pause both players’ games. This can confuse 
your opponent if he doesn’t notice the illuminated Pause icon. When you 
play, keep an eye on this icon. 

Communicating with your Opponent 

You can send a message to your opponent by clicking on the Send Message 
icon at any point during the game. This brings up “Send a Message.” Type 
your message in the box and press Return. The game pauses until your 
opponent reads the message and selects OK. 

You can also talk to your opponent on the phone after a game has begun. 
Click on the globe to get the Game Setup menu and then select Load 
Game. You’ll both see the message “Pick Up Phone” — both of you should 


pick up the phone at this point. If it’s hard to hear your opponent, type 
ATH in the Send Login box and press Return; this turns off the modem’s 
carrier. (Note: If your opponent hasn’t picked up the phone at this point, 
the phone connection will be lost.) To re-establish the link after talking, 
one player must type ATA and the other must type ATD in your Send 
Login boxes. Then you can proceed as described above in “Starting the 
Two Player Game.” 

Game Over 

After somebody wins, you’ll see the Game Lost or Game Won information. 
To continue with the next game, both players must select Next Game. 

Possible Communication Problems 

If you’re using a modem and you get the message “He’s Trying To Be Evil/ 
Good” even after you’ve tried selecting both die I AM GOOD and I AM 
EVIL options, your modem has not established a connection to the remote 
modem. Your modem is merely echoing back to your computer whatever 
selection you made. You can stop the echoing by typing ATEO in the Send 
2 Login box, but to fix the problem you have to redial your opponent. 

4 During communicadon, the program checks the data to see if it has been 
corrupted. If it is corrupted, it sends the same data a few more times before 
giving up and informing you that there is a Serial Checksum error. 

If you only have a low-speed modem, it’s possible to increase the speed of 
the game by switching off this checking altogether. To do this, select Full 
Serial Checking and it changes to “No Serial Checking.’’ Even in this 
mode, the program checks every couple of seconds to see that the land¬ 
scapes have not gone out of sync. By turning off serial checking, you run a 
greater risk of having your data get corrupted. If this happens, you are in¬ 
formed that there is an Incompatible Landscape error. Both players should 
select the same Serial Checking mode. 

Mouse Response Time 

Playing in Two Player mode is similar to One Player mode. You may no¬ 
tice at low baud rates a very slight delay between clicking your mouse and 
seeing the results. This can be a little frustrating if you’re used to the fast 
response of higher baud rates or the one player game. To overcome this 
problem, don’t move the mouse until the mouse click has activated your 
command. 


Messages in Two Player Mode 


CHECKSUM SERIAL ERROR 

The data being sent between the two machines has become corrupted. 
This may be due to a damaged lead in datalink mode or a bad line in 
modem mode. The game pauses and each player should save the game. 
Reconnect using that saved game and a different line. 

INCOMPATIBLE LANDSCAPE ERROR 

You get this message when the landscape is in any way different on 
each machine — this means the machines are out of sync. This error 
only happens when you turn off error checking to speed up data com¬ 
munication. If this error occurs, the game is paused and each player 
should save the game. Because these two games are out of sync, one of 
you should make a copy of your game and give it to the opponent. This 
way you can resume the game with the same version — one that’s not 
out of sync. 

MESSAGE FROM GOOD/EVIL 
Select OK after you read the message. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS SWITCHED TO ONE PLAYER MODE 
You’re also placed in One Player mode. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS SELECTED PAINT MAP 

The other player has gone into Paint Map mode. You’re now also in 

Paint Map mode and are free to alter the landscape. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS TURNED ON/OFF COMPUTER ASSIS¬ 
TANCE. 

This means the other player has turned the computer player on or off. 
If he turned it on, the computer will assist him. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS CHANGED HIS GAME OPTIONS 
The other player has changed his game options. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS CHANGED YOUR GAME OPTIONS 
The other player has changed your game options. 


OTHER PLAYER HAS CHANGED THE GAME OPTIONS 
The other player has changed options that affect the both of you. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS SAVED HIS GAME DO YOU WISH TO 
SAVE ALSO? 

Select OK to bring up the Save Game requester; select Cancel if you 
don’t want to save. 

OTHER PLAYER HAS CHANGED SIDE 
You will both switch sides. 

STARTUP SERIAL 

You see this if the other player has selected Two Players from the Game 
Setup options. Pick up your phone and type ATH into the Send Login 
Box and press Return if you want to talk to your opponent. 

Unnoticed Activities 

You can do three things that won’t make a message appear on your oppo- 
2 nent’s screen. If you want your opponent to know you’re going to do any of 
these actions, use the Send Message option. 

6 

1. Move to the next map. 

2. Restart the game. The landscape is cleared and the original map 
(before any modifications were made) is loaded. 

3. Surrender. 


QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 


Q Do I have to play all the worlds of Conquest in one sitting? 

A No. You can save games at any time and load them later to continue. 
Just write down the names of the worlds you conquer so you can start 
from the last world next time. 

Q Why do my people die as they walk around? 

A Like real people, walkers grow tired from exhaustion and lack of vital 
supplies; eventually they die. Terrain makes a difference. A grassy and 
fertile landscape does less damage to a walker than hostile desert ter¬ 
rain. 






Q How do I get a strong leader? 

A You can increase the strength of your leader by selecting the Go To 
Papal Magnet icon, placing the papal magnet in a friendly castle, and 
waiting for the leader and his followers to arrive. The people will gather 
and combine with your leader to make him stronger. The side effect of 
this is that your lands will not expand since everybody is busy walking 
instead of settling. 

Q Why do my lands keep getting cleared? 

A Your lands can be emptied by incorrect use of the Go to Papal Magnet 
mode. If a situation arises that causes your people to leave their homes 
(like an earthquake or a volcano), they won’t resettle since people don’t 
settle in Go to Papal Magnet mode. 

Q Why does the ankh jump when my leader dies? 

A The papal magnet moves to the point where the leader dies or is 
knighted. You can’t move the papal magnet from that spot until a new 
leader is created. 

Q What do I do to land that’s been burned by a knight? 

A Raise and lower it so you can build on it again. 

Q How do I remove a swamp? 

A To remove a swamp, raise and lower that same point. 

Q What effect do the rocks and trees have? 

A Rocks and trees affect you by limiting the amount of land that can be 
used for crops. Some rocks disappear when you raise and lower them, 
others stay until you “drown” them in the sea (lower the land around 
them until you hit water, and then raise the land again). 

Q How do I get people out of their houses to become walkers? 

A You can get people out of their houses by decreasing the size of the 
usable land that surrounds a settlement (e.g. with a hill). This reduces 
the size of that house and the number of people that can live in it, there¬ 
fore creating a walker. 

Q Why should I build castles? 

A Castles have three main things going for them: they produce people 
faster than any other type of building; they produce more manna than 
any other building; and they have the highest technology level of any 
building. The walkers fresh out from castles are the strongest around. 


The problem with castles is that they take a large area of land to sup¬ 
port them and they are so big that they take a long time to fill up to 
produce one of these tough walkers. Different landscapes have differ¬ 
ent advantages and disadvantages, so the benefits of a castle may not 
apply on certain landscapes. 

Q What does the shield do? 

A The shield provides you with details about the various people and 
buildings. The shield also lets you gauge how strong your attacker is 
compared to a defender. The bars in Quadrant 4 of the shield shows 
the balance of power during battles, with the blue (Good) and red (Evil) 
bars showing relative strength. See Information Shield for details. 

Q Why can’t I lower land? 

A There is an option under Game Options that only lets you raise land. 
There’s also a mode that allows no building at all. It’s also possible that 
you just don’t have enough manna to build. 

Q Why can’t I build? 

A There are a number of possible reasons: you may not have enough 
manna, you may have selected “Build near people” and not have a 
walker on the Closeup Map, or you may have the “Cannot build” op¬ 
tion switched on. 

Q Why can’t I raise land without flags? 

A You may have the “Cannot build” option on, or you may not have 
enough manna. 

Q Why can’t I use a divine intervention command like earthquake, vol¬ 
cano, swamp, etc.? 

A You may not have enough manna to use the command. Check the 
Manna Bar; you can only use the effects to the left of the arrow marker. 
Another explanation is that the particular option may be turned off for 
this game. 

Q Why can’t I knight somebody? 

A To create a knight, you must have a leader and enough manna to use 
the effect. 

Q How do I make a new leader? 

A To create a new leader, you must get a walker to touch the papal mag¬ 
net. To do this, click on the Go to Papal Magnet icon. 


Q Why do several things happen to the land when I just click once? 

A The other player may be working on the land in the same region. You 
can never tell where the enemy is since you can’t see the other player’s 
cursor. 

Q How do I win a game? 

A To win a game (conquer a world) you must destroy all of the enemy’s 
walkers and settlements. 

Q How do I stop my opponent from winning? 

A By winning yourself. A useful technique is to keep the enemy busy long 
enough for you to build yourself up. Why not try a triple volcano? 

Q Why do different sized buildings appear? 

A The size of the building depends on the amount of flat land that sur¬ 
rounds it. The more flat, usable land there is, the larger the buildings. 

Q How do I know how strong someone is? 

A Use the shield to tell you roughly how strong someone is. See “Query” 
under Command Icons for details. 

Q What does the skull do to me? 

A The skull doesn’t affect you in any way. It’s the Evil player’s papal 
magnet. 

Q How can I get rid of the Skull? 

A The skull only moves if the Evil player moves it, or if the Evil player’s 
leader dies or is knighted. You can’t do anything to it. 

Q Why does the arrow marker by my Manna Bar go up so slowly? How 
can I improve its rate of increase? 

A The more followers you have, the larger your manna source. You can 
increase your Manna by increasing your population. At first it’s a slow 
process, but as you learn the best strategy for building and populating, 
you’ll do better. Conserve manna by using it wisely. Don’t repeatedly 
raise and lower the same chunk of terrain; it doesn’t get you anywhere 
and it burns up your manna. 

Q Why does my castle disappear when I knight my leader? 

A When you create a knight, you take the leader and the building that 
he’s currently in and turn them into the knight. 

Q Do the types of landscape make any difference? 


A Yes. Each landscape type affects the way the game plays. You need dif¬ 
ferent tactics to beat your opponent on different landscapes. 

Q What is the speckled area surrounding a settlement? 

A This area holds your crops. The land that your building is on may in¬ 
terweave with the land your enemy’s on. Larger buildings tend to take 
crop fields from smaller buildings. 

Q How do I get the papal magnet in a building? 

A Place the crosshair on the bottom corner of the building and click. 

Q How do I talk to my modem opponent without exiting the game? 

A Let your opponent know what you’re doing by using the Send Message 
icon. See page 19 for details. 

Q How do I restart a saved landscape in Two Player mode? 

A Enter the Game Setup options and select Two Players. This puts the 
modem (if present) into command mode. If using a modem, re-estab¬ 
lish connection by both players typing AT01 in the Send Login box 
and pressing Return. Click on the Use This Landscape button to 
bring up the Load Game requester. Select the game that was originally 
loaded. Select the Connect Me button to restart that game. 

Q Why has the game paused? 

A Occasionally, the game freezes for no apparent reason in two player 
mode. There are five possible reasons why: 

1. You’ve sent a message and your opponent hasn’t selected OK. 

2. Your opponent paused the game (your Pause icon will be lit up in 
this case). 

3. Your opponent selected either the Game Setup icon or the Game 
Balance icon and might be making changes. 

4. Data is becoming corrupt in Full Serial Checking mode and the 
computer is attempting to resend it. This could be caused by a bad 
line. 

5. The modem was reset, or the carrier was lost due to a bad line. 

Q I have a low speed modem. Is there any way of increasing the speed of 
the game? 

A In the Startup Serial requester, select Full Serial Checking and it 
changes to “No Serial Checking.’’ Both players must do this. Remem¬ 
ber that turning off your serial checking increases your risk of getting 
corrupted data. 


ICON AND KEY SUMMARY 


These are all the icons you can select in Populous: 


Direction and Object Icons: Game Control Icons: 


£7 

Directions 

FX 

Sound Effects 

? 

Query 

flji 

zZZ 

Music 

Pause 

Divine Intervention Icons: 

i 

Game Setup 
Game Balance 

M 

c f a 

«n» 

w 

X 

Raise and Lower Land 

Place Papal Magnet 
Earthquake 

Swamp 

Knight 

Volcano 

Flood 

Armageddon 

s 

Send Message 


Influence Behavior Icons: 


^ ^ Go to Papal Magnet 

■=> Settle 

•=> (gj) Gather then Settle 

«=> X Fight then Settle 


Zoom Icons: 

< C T a > Zoom to Leader or Papal Magnet 

< I© > Zoom to Knight or Settlements 

< X > Zoom to Battle 

< ^ > Zoom to Shield 






TECHNICAL SUPPORT 


If you have questions about the program, our Technical Support Depart¬ 
ment can help. If your question isn’t urgent, please write to us at: 

Electronic Arts Technical Support 

P.O. Box 7578 

San Mateo, CA 94403-7578 

Please be sure to include the following information in your letter: 

• Product name 

• Type of computer you own 

• Any additional system information (like type and make of monitor, 
video card, printer, modem etc.) 

• Type of operating system or DOS version number 

• Description of the problem you’re having 

If you need to talk to someone immediately, call us at (415) 572-ARTS 
Monday though Friday between 8:30 am and 4:30 pm, Pacific Time. 
Please have the above information ready when you call. This will help us 
answer your question in the shortest possible time. 

If you live outside of the United States, you can contact one of our other 
offices. 

In the United Kingdom, contact: Electronic Arts Limited, P.O. Box 835, 
Slough SL3 8XU, UK. Phone (044) 753 46465 
In Australia, contact: ECP/EA, 4/18 Lawrence Drive, Nerang, Gold 
Coast, QLD 4211. Phone: (75) 963-488. 


LIMITED WARRANTY 


Electronic Arts (“EA”) provides to the original purchaser of the computer 
software product, for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of original 
purchase (the “Warranty Period”), the following limited warranties: 
Media — EA warrants that, under normal use, the magnetic media and the 
packaging provided with it are free from defects in materials and workman¬ 
ship. 










Software — EA warrants that the software, as originally purchased, will 
perform substantially in conformance with the specifications set forth in 
the packaging and in the user manual. 


WARRANTY CLAIMS 


To make a warranty claim under this limited warranty, please return the 
product to the point of purchase, accompanied by proof of purchase, your 
name, your return address, and a statement of the defect. OR send the 
disk(s) to us at the above address within 90 days of purchase. Include a copy 
of the dated purchase receipt, your name, your return address, and a state¬ 
ment of the defect. EA or its authorized dealer will, at our option, repair or 
replace the product and return it to you (postage prepaid) or issue you with 
a credit equal to the purchase price. 


To replace defective media after the 90-day warranty period has expired, 
send the original disk(s) to the above address. Enclose a statement of the 
defect, your name, your return address, and a check or money order for 
$7.50. 

THE FOREGOING STATES THE PURCHASER’S SOLE AND EX¬ 
CLUSIVE REMEDY FOR ANY BREACH OF WARRANTY WITH 
RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE PRODUCT. 

Warranty Exclusions: EA EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE MEDIA AND THE SOFT¬ 
WARE, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. ANY WARRANTIES 
IMPLIED BY LAW ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE WAR¬ 
RANTY PERIOD. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS 
ON THE DURATION OF AN IMPLIED WARRANTY, SO THE 
ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WAR¬ 
RANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY ALSO 
HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE. 






LIMITATION ON DAMAGES 


EA SHALL NOT IN ANY CASE BE LIABLE FOR INCIDENTAL, 
CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER INDIRECT DAMAGES ARISING 
FROM ANY CLAIM UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF EA OR 
ITS AGENTS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGES. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLU¬ 
SION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY 
NOT APPLY TO YOU. 

Unless indicated otherwise, all software and documentation is 
© 1988, 1989 Electronic Arts. All Rights Reserved. 

NOTICE 

ELECTRONIC ARTS RESERVES THE RIGHT TO MAKE IM¬ 
PROVEMENTS IN THE PRODUCT DESCRIBED IN THIS MAN¬ 
UAL AT ANY TIME AND WITHOUT NOTICE. 

THIS MANUAL, AND THE SOFTWARE DESCRIBED IN THIS 
MANUAL, IS COPYRIGHTED. ALL RIGHTS ARE RESERVED. NO 
PART OF THIS MANUAL OR THE DESCRIBED SOFTWARE MAY 
BE COPIED, REPRODUCED, TRANSLATED OR REDUCED TO 
ANY ELECTRONIC MEDIUM OR MACHINE-READABLE FORM 
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF ELECTRONIC 
ARTS, P. O. BOX 7578, SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 94403-7578, 
ATTN: CUSTOMER SERVICE. 

ELECTRONIC ARTS MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IM¬ 
PLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THIS MANUAL, ITS QUALITY, MER¬ 
CHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
THIS MANUAL IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” ELECTRONIC ARTS 
MAKES CERTAIN LIMITED WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO 
THE SOFTWARE AND THE MEDIA FOR THE SOFTWARE. 
PLEASE SEE THE ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED WARRANTY 
BELOW. 

SOFTWARE © 1989 BULLFROG PRODUCTIONS 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 

© 1989 ELECTRONIC ARTS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 







ELECTRONIC ARTS® 
Customer Service 
P.O. Box 7578 
San Mateo, CA 94403-7578 


345205 